# C_terminal_domain_analyzer

Bacterial tyrosinases are often expressed in a latent, enzymatically inactive state. 
This latency is caused by a specialized domain which is located at the C-terminal
end of the enzyme and is, therefore, called "C-terminal domain".
While all characterized tyrosinases from plants, fungi, and metazoa feature a 
C-terminal domain, bacterial tyrosinases can be expressed without it.

This repository contains code to perform comprehensive analysis of the C-terminal 
domain in bacterial tyrosinases.
First, 3D structures of tyrosinase enzymes deposited in the UniProt Databank are 
automatically downloaded from AlphaFold. Next, the presence of a type III copper
center, which is characteristic for tyrosinases and is composed of six conserved 
histidines coordinating two copper ions, is computationally checked.
Machine learning is employed to classify enzymes as featuring or lacking a 
C-terminal domain. 
In-depth analysis of the C-terminal domains is performed, including calculating 
their molecular weight, the number of beta-sheets, the presence of a twin-arginine 
translocation motif, the presence of amino acids responsible for copper 
incorporation, and the identification of the so called place-holder residue, which 
is critically involved in conferring the latency.

An .xlsx file downloaded from the UniProt databank containg all enzymes to be ivnestigated 
is provided as input. 

A master file performing the full-length analysis will be provided following the
publication of results generated by this code.

